<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<title>Release Notes</title>
<style>
<!--

.regular {font: 10pt/20pt serif} 
-->
</style>
</head>

<body>

<h1>NOT RELEASED YET</h1>

<h1>PS Viewer 1.1.0 Release Notes</h1>
<p><font size="2">Release Notes Version: $Revision: 1.2 $.</font></p>
<p><font size="2">The most recent version of this file is available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/psviewer/ReleaseNotes-1.1.0.html">here</a>.<br>
Release notes for all versions of the PS Viewer are available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/psviewer/AllReleaseNotes.html">here</a>.</font></p>
<p>The PS Viewer is a Level 2 PostScript viewer which can either be used 
stand-alone or is embeddable in a user application.</p>
<p>The Viewer will handle most PostScript commands, but some restrictions apply, 
see our
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=PSViewer&area=bugs&reset=true&mode=hide&sorter/order=ASC&sorter/field=priority&resolutionIds=-1">
bug database</a>.</p>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="#Compliance">PostScript Compliance</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Changes">Major changes in the PS Viewer 1.1.0</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Documentation">Documentation</a></li>
  <li><a href="#License">License</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Installation">Installing the PS Viewer</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Compilation">Compiling the PS Viewer</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Building">Building an Application with the PS Viewer</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Running">Running the PS Viewer</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Features">Features/Limitations of the Current Release</a></li>
  <li><a href="#BugReporting">Reporting Bugs</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Examples">Examples</a></li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="Compliance">PostScript Compliance</a></h2>
<p>This viewer implements most of the PostScript Level 2 commands and some of 
the Level 3 commands. For a description of PostScript see the
<a href="http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/pdfs/tn/PLRM.pdf">PostScript 
Language Reference Manual, Third Edition</a> from Adobe Systems Inc.</p>
<h2><a name="Changes">Major changes in the PS Viewer 1.1.0</a></h2>
<ul>
  <li>FREEHEP-393: Command Line Argument parsing now uses org.freehep.util.argv 
  package.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-400: A PSDevice class was added with a VirtualDevice and a PanelDevice to cope 
  with the PageBoundingBox, BoundingBox and multiple pages, including the Raster 
  erasePage operation. It also allows for zooming into the page (-s) and 
  specifying a translation (-tx, -ty).</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-398: One page from a multiple page PS file can be viewed (-p), but the document 
  still needs to be fully read up to the page to be displayed. In future we may 
  want to add DSC handling to split documents into pages.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-151: MatrixOperators DefaultMatrix and InitMatrix should keep 
  using the Identity Matrix.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-126: ArithmeticOperators now return PSDouble if the result is not 
  in an PSInteger range.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-160: PathBBox now handles explicitly set BoundingBox.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-167 (partial): SetBBox now in use.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-150: ScaleFont and MakeFont return a copy of the font.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-159: CharPath now uses boolean &quot;strokepath&quot; to create a stroked 
  path if necessary.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-401: Fonts only turned upside-down when glyphs are produced. CurrentFont now 
  returns proper font and matrix, MakeFont takes size of previous CurrentFont 
  call into account.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-143: CvI and CvRS report RangeCheck errors.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-125: Document Structuring Conventions (DSC) level 3.0  implemented to 
  parse for instance BoundingBox and Page.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-402: Scanner ignores lines starting with @ so that @PCL can be left in the 
  PostScript file.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-403: PSName ignores names starting with an &quot;ESC&quot; character.</li>
  <li>FREEHEP-404: ClassCastException fixed in Copy command when PackedArrays are used.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="Documentation">Documentation</a></h2>
<p>The following documentation is currently available:</p>
<ul>
  <li>
  <a href="http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/pdfs/tn/PLRM.pdf">PostScript 
Language Reference Manual, Third Edition</a> (Red Book)</li>
  <li>
  <a href="http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/offline/PostScript/BLUEBOOK.PDF">PostScript 
  Language Tutorial and Cookbook</a> (Blue Book)</li>
  <li>
  <a href="http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/offline/PostScript/GREENBK.PDF">PostScript 
  Language Program Design</a> (Green Book)</li>
  <li>
  <a href="http://www.rightbrain.com/pages/books.html">Thinking in PostScript</a></li>
  <li>
  <a href="http://java.freehep.org/lib/freehep/api/org/freehep/postscript/package-summary.html">
  PSViewer API documentation</a></li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="License">License</a></h2>
<p>The PS Viewer is part of the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/">FreeHEP Java Library</a>, 
an &quot;Open Source&quot; library distributed under the terms of the
<a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html">LGPL</a>. If you have 
questions about the licensing please send a mail to:
<a href="mailto:developers@freehep.org">developers@freehep.org</a>.</p>
<h2><a name="Installation">Installin</a>g the PS Viewer</h2>

<p>Download the PS Viewer and unpack.  The distribution 
creates the following directory structure:</p>

<pre>PSViewer-version            containing license and release notes
PSViewer-version/bin        containing run scripts
PSViewer-version/examples   containing examples
PSViewer-version/lib        containing jar files</pre>
<h2><a name="Compilation">Compiling the </a>PS Viewer</h2>
<p>The current distribution does not contain source files.  </p>
<p>To (re-)build the PS Viewer  you need to get PSViewer-1.1.0-src.zip or .tar.gz file from 
the <a href="ftp://ftp.slac.stanford.edu/software/freehep/PSViewer/v1.1.0">ftp://ftp.slac.stanford.edu/software/freehep/PSViewer/v1.1.0/</a> directory. </p>
<p>To compile it, follow the general instructions for
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/Build.html">Building the Java FreeHEP Library</a> 
and compile only the psviewer.jar file using the command:</p>
<pre>ant -Djar=psviewer</pre>
<p>To build the distribution kit:</p>
<pre>cd org/freehep/postscript
gmake dist</pre>
<h2><a name="Building">Building</a> an Application with the PS Viewer</h2>
<p>Set the environment variable PSVIEWER_HOME to your unpacked PSViewer 
distribution.  </p>
<p>Add the following libraries (all in $PSVIEWER_HOME/lib) to your CLASSPATH:</p>
<blockquote>
  <pre>freehep-psviewer.jar
freehep-graphicsio.jar
freehep-graphics2d.jar
freehep-base.jar</pre>
</blockquote>
<p>Now you can compile your application using the PS Viewer, and run it.</p>
<h2><a name="Running">Running</a> the PS Viewer</h2>
<p>Set the environment variable PSVIEWER_HOME to your unpacked PSViewer 
distribution.  </p>

<p>Add $PSVIEWER_HOME/bin to your PATH and run:</p>

<blockquote>
  <pre>psviewer</pre>
</blockquote>
  <p>or</p>

<blockquote>
  <pre>psviewer -h</pre>
</blockquote>
<p>to get a description of the options.</p>
<h2><a name="Features">Features/Limitations of the Current Release</a></h2>
<p>The following limitations exist:</p>
<ul>
  <li>All outstanding issues in the
  <a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=PSViewer&area=bugs&reset=true&mode=hide&sorter/order=ASC&sorter/field=priority&resolutionIds=-1">
  Bug Database</a>.</li>
  <li>All images using 12 bits/component probably will not work.</li>
  <li>The distribution kits contain some CVS directories and files, please 
  ignore.</li>
  <li>The freehep-base.jar file (and especially its sources) are dependent on 
  some external jar files which are not strictly needed for the PS Viewer. 
  Please ignore for now. In a later release we will shrink freehep-base.jar and 
  get rid of these dependencies.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="BugReporting">Reporting Bugs</a></h2>
<p>To report bugs or request enhancements you may use the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=PSViewer&area=bugs&reset=true&mode=hide&sorter/order=ASC&sorter/field=priority&resolutionIds=-1">
FreeHEP bug database</a>, component PS Viewer.</p>
<h2><a name="Examples">Examples</a></h2>
<p>The PSViewer/examples directory contains: </p>

<ul>
  <li><b>EmbedPSViewer.java</b> which shows how to embed 2 PSViewers in one application</li>
  <li><b>PStoSWF.java</b> which shows how to build a converter from PostScript to 
  Macromedia Flash Format (SWF).</li>
</ul>

</body>

</html>