<html>
<head>
<title>YaPPI, Yet another Particle Property Interface</title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Overview</h1>
<p>YaPPI is an XML database of particle properties. It is a part of the open source
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/">FreeHEP Java Library</a>.</p>

<h2>What is YaPPI?</h2>
<p>
YaPPI is an XML database of particle properties, accessible through a
Java API. The goal is to provide particle property data to physicists'
analysis programs in a way that is independent of platform, environment,
or analysis package being used. Available components of YaPPI include:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
    A set of XML files derived from
    derived directly from the from the Review of Particle Physics (RPP)
    of the <a href="http://pdg.lbl.gov/">Particle Data Group</a> (PDG).
    The XML data files are designed to be easy for users to modify or
    extend for their own purposes.
</li>
<li>
    A Java API for reading (and writing) the XML database.
</li>
<li>
    An implementation of the ParticlePropertyProvider
    interface of the <a href="http://jas.freehep.org/">Java Analysis Studio</a>
    (JAS), a High Energy Physics analysis software package. JAS users
    may access particle properties in XML directly from within JAS,.
</li>
<li>A <a href="BrowseData.html">web servlet</a> to allow online browsing
    of particle data. </li>
</ul>

<p>The implementation was created by Patrick Hellwig as Summer Student at CERN in 2000
and is currently maintained by Mark D&ouml;nszelmann and Tony Johnson at SLAC.
</p>
</body>

</html>
