<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<title>JAIDA 3.0</title>
</head>

<body>

<h1>JAIDA 3.0.3 Release Notes</h1>
<h3>Important</h3>
<p>There are two major differences in JAIDA 3.0.3 with respect to 3.0.1.</p>
<p>The first difference is in the name of the factories. We currently provide 
just two factories:</p>
<ul>
  <li>hep.aida.ref.BatchAnalysisFactory, the default. Use this factory if you don't want a window to 
  display plots; meant to be used for batch processing.</li>
  <li>hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory, this factory provides a GUI to 
  display plots</li>
</ul>
<p>The GUI provided by the hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory is pretty limited. For more advanced 
functionality we suggest you save the output of your jobs in aida files and use
<a href="http://jas.freehep.org/jas3">JAS3</a> to work on them.</p>
<p>The other difference is in the jar files. As JAIDA is now completely part of 
FreeHEP, the JASAIDA jar file, distributed with release 3.0.1 is no longer 
needed. Additional jar files are distributed and needed to support the added 
functionality.</p>
<h3>&nbsp;</h3>
<h3>What is Included in the Release</h3>
<p>This current release of JAIDA is designed to be used with
<a href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.1/download.html">Java 1.4.0 </a>or later. 
It will not work with earlier versions of Java. </p>
<p>Check the following <a href="MissingFeatures.html">list</a> to see which part 
of AIDA are not fully implemented.</p>
<p>Several JAR files are included in this release. You have to include the ones 
you need in your CLASSPATH to be able to use JAIDA:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>aida.jar</b> - The specification of the AIDA interfaces</li>
  <li><b>aida-dev.jar </b>- The developer level specification of the AIDA 
  interfaces</li>
  <li><b>freehep-hep.jar</b> - The base (non-graphical) AIDA implementation</li>
  <li><b>freehep-base.jar</b> - Some utilities used by freehep-hep</li>
  <li><b>openide-lookup.jar</b> - Utility used by AIDA implementation</li>
  <li><b>jel.jar</b> - Utility used by AIDA implementation </li>
  <li><b>optimizers.jar</b> - Optimization package containing the optimizer
    UNCMIN </li>
  <li><b>bcel.jar</b> - needed to read ROOT files </li>
  <li><b>jas-plotter.jar</b> - Required if you need to display plots</li>
  <li>OS-dependent <b>CERNLIBAdapter</b> library - Required to perform fits using Minuit 
  and to read PAW files.<ul>
          <li>On <b>Windows</b> - add directory with CERNLIBAdapter library file to the PATH</li>
          <li>On <b>Linux</b> or <b>Solaris</b> - add directory with CERNLIBAdapter library file to the LD_LIBRARY_PATH</li>
          <li>On <b>Mac OSX</b> - add directory with CERNLIBAdapter library file to the DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH</li>
      </ul> 
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>&nbsp;</h3>


<h3>Saving plots</h3>


<p>If you are using the hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory you can export your plots to file 
through the writeToFile(String fileName, String type) method on the IPlotter. In 
order to do this you need to download the following jar files from the
<a href="../../Distributions.html">FreeHEP repository</a> and add them to your 
CLASSPATH:</p>


<ul>
  <li><b>freehep-graphics2d.jar</b></li>
  <li><b>freehep-graphicsio.jar</b></li>
  <li>any additional <b>freehep-graphicsio-&quot;type&quot;.jar</b> where &quot;type&quot; is one of 
  the following export formats:<ul>
    <li>cgm, emf, gif, pdf, ppm, ps, svg, swf</li>
  </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p>


<h3>Limitations/Features of the Current Release</h3>


<p><b>Histograms</b> - We have provided a full implementation of the AIDA 3.0 
histogram interfaces, including histogram arithmetic and projections and slices. 
Slicing of 3D histogram is not yet supported.</p>


<p><b>Profile</b> - One and two dimensional Profile histograms are fully implemented.
</p>


<p><b>Clouds</b> - We have provided a full implementation of the AIDA 3.0 
cloud interfaces. By default clouds will &quot;auto-convert&quot; to histograms when they 
reach 100,000 entries. You can turn off auto-conversion by specifying the option 
&quot;autoConvert=no&quot; when creating the Cloud.</p>

<p><b>DataPointSet</b> - A full implementation of the AIDA 3.0 is implemented including operations
among DataPointSets.</p>


<p><b>Trees and IO - </b>The following methods are not yet implemented, mv, cp, and symlink. The current implementation of&nbsp; ITree 
supports reading and writing AIDA standard XML files (.aida files) in either 
gzip compressed format, or uncompressed format. You can control this via the 
options parameter when the ITree is created. The default is &quot;compressed=yes&quot;. 
It is also possible to open ROOT and PAW files.</p>
<p><b>Tuples - </b>The whole functionality of AIDA ITuple interface is 
supported. Full interactive analysis 
of ITuples&nbsp; is provided by the TupleExplorer plugin in JAS3.</p>
<p><b>Plotting - </b>Full support for the IPlotter interface is included, 
including regions and overlays. In the Java implementation the Plotter observes all displayed 
Histograms and Clouds, and will automatically update the display as necessary. 
Therefore the IPlotter.refresh() method is currently ignored in the Java 
implementation. Not all AIDA implementations will do this, so you for 
portability you should still periodically call the refresh() method. Similarly 
the Java implementation is multi-threaded, so plots will be refreshed while the 
main program continues to run, and hence the IPlotter.interact() method is also 
ignored by the Java implementation. Currently only 1D and 2D histograms and 
clouds can be displayed (not 3D). Histograms with variable bin-widths are not 
yet displayed correctly.</p>

<p><b>Fitting </b>- The flexible design of the IFitter interface allows the user
to switch very easily the optimizer engine used in the minimization process and the
type of fit method used. We currently support two optimizers: <i>Minuit</i> and <a href
"http://www-fp.mcs.anl.gov/otc/Guide/SoftwareGuide/Blurbs/uncmin.html"><i>Uncmin</i></a>.
The available fit methods are: <i>LeastSquares</i>, <i>Chi2</i>, <i>CleverChi2</i>,
<i>BinnedMaximumLikelihood</i> and <i>UnbinnedMaximumLikelihood</i>.</p>

<p><b>Functions</b>- Two types of functions can be created with the IFunctionFactory:
built-in functions and scripted functions. Currently the only built-in functions
we provide are the <i>Polynomial</i>, the <i>Exponential</i>, the one and two
dimensional <i>Gaussian</i> that can be created through the <i>createFunctionByName</i>
method of the <i>IFunctionFactory</i> using for the functions model <i>p</i>, <i>e</i>, <i>g</i>
and <i>g2</i> rispectively. No operations among them are currently supported. For more
complicated functions the user should create scripted functions throught the <i>createFunctionFromScript</i>
method.
</p>
</body>

</html>