<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 6.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<title>Release Notes</title>
</head>

<body>

<h1>CERNLIBAdapter 3.0.5 Release Notes</h1>
<p><font size="2">Release Notes Version: $Revision: 1.1 $.</font></p>
<p><font size="2">The most recent version of this file is available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/cernlibadapter/ReleaseNotes-3.0.5.html">here</a>.<br>
Release notes for all versions of CERNLIBAdapter are available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/cernlibadapter/AllReleaseNotes.html">here</a>.</font></p>
<p>CERNLIBAdapter is a Java adapter for parts of the CERN Program Library
<a href="http://cernlib.web.cern.ch/cernlib/">CERNLIB</a>. It includes
<a href="http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/hbook/HBOOKMAIN.html">HBOOK</a> 
and <a href="http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/minuit/minmain.html">MINUIT</a>. </p>
<p>The CERNLIBAdapter distribution is an extension to the JAIDA library and 
cannot be used stand-alone.</p>
<p>In future we may distribute a version for stand-alone usage. This would allow 
Java programmers to use those parts of CERNLIB included in the Adapter. </p>
<p><a href="http://jas.freehep.org/">JAS3 - Java Analysis Studio</a> includes a 
copy of JAIDA and the CERNLIBAdapter.</p>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="#Compliance">CERNLIB Version</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Platforms">Supported Platforms</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Changes">Major changes in CERNLIBAdapter 3.0.5</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Documentation">Documentation</a></li>
  <li><a href="#License">License</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Installation">Installing CERNLIBAdapter</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Compilation">Compiling CERNLIBAdapter</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Building">Building an Application with CERNLIBAdapter</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Running">Running an Application with CERNLIBAdapter</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Features">Features/Limitations of the Current Release</a></li>
  <li><a href="#BugReporting">Reporting Bugs</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Examples">Examples</a></li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="Compliance">CERNLIB Version</a></h2>
<p>This adapter is compatible with version 2003 of CERNLIB, see
<a href="http://cernlib.web.cern.ch/cernlib/news/">CERNLIB's ReleaseNotes</a>.</p>
<h2><a name="Platforms">Supported Platforms</a></h2>
<p>Binaries are available and supported for the following combinations of 
architectures and compilers:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Windows NT/2000/XP<ul>
    <li><b>WIN32-VC7</b>: Visual Studio .NET Professional 2003.<br>
    Microsoft (R) 32-bit C/C++ Optimizing Compiler Version 
    13.10.3077 for 80x86</li>
    <li><b>WIN32-VC</b>: Visual Studio 6.0<br>
    Microsoft (R) 32-bit C/C++ Optimizing Compiler Version 12.00.8804 for 80x86</li>
    <li><b>WIN32-g++</b>: gcc version 3.3.1 (cygming special)<br>Using a cygwin shell.</li>
  </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Linux<ul>
    <li><b>Linux-g++2</b>: gcc version 2.95.3 20010315 (release)</li>
    <li><b>Linux-g++</b>: gcc version 3.2.2</li>
  </ul>
  </li>
  <li>MacOS X 10.3<ul>
    <li><b>Darwin-g++</b>: gcc version 3.3 20030304 (Apple Computer, Inc. build 1495)</li>
  </ul></li>
  <li>SUN Solaris<ul>
    <li><b>SUN-CC</b>: CC: Forte Developer 7 C++ 5.4 Patch 111715-13 2003/12/11</li>
  </ul></li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="Changes">Major changes in CERNLIBAdapter 3.0.5</a></h2>
<ul>
<li>CLA-10: Data from rowwise tuples being accessed incorrectly.</li>
</ul>
<p><font size="2">For a full list of changes in CERNLIBAdapter 3.0.5 see the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=CERNLIBAdapter&area=bugs&report=changelog">
CERNLIBAdapter
change log</a>.</font></p>
<h2><a name="Documentation">Documentation</a></h2>
<p>For the 
CERNLIBAdapter the following documents are useful:</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/hbook/HBOOKMAIN.html">HBOOK</a> 
  User's Guide</li>
  <li><a href="http://wwwasdoc.web.cern.ch/wwwasdoc/minuit/minmain.html">MINUIT</a> 
  User's Guide</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="License">License</a></h2>
<p>The CERNLIBAdapter is part of the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/">FreeHEP Java Library</a> 
an &quot;Open Source&quot; library distributed under the terms of the
<a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html">LGPL</a>. If you have 
questions about the licensing please send a mail to:
<a href="mailto:developers@freehep.org">developers@freehep.org</a>.</p>
<h2><a name="Installation">Installin</a>g CERNLIBAdapter</h2>
<p>Download CERNLIBAdapter for one or more platforms. These distributions overlay on 
top of each other, adding support for different architectures. The distribution 
creates the following directory structure:</p>

<pre>CERNLIBAdapter-version            containing license and release notes
CERNLIBAdapter-version/lib        containing platform specific directories with libraries
                           	  (shareable and static)</pre>
<h2><a name="Compilation">Compilation</a></h2>
<p>The current distributions do not contain source files.  </p>
<p>To (re-)build CERNLIBAdapter for a particular platform you need to get the 
source of the FreeHEP library. </p>
<h2><a name="Building">Building</a> an Application with CERNLIBAdapter</h2>
<p>Current support for CERNLIBAdapter is only as an add-on to JAIDA.</p>
<h2><a name="Running">Running</a> an Application with CERNLIBAdapter</h2>
<p>Current support for CERNLIBAdapter is only as an add-on to JAIDA.</p>
<h2><a name="Features">Features/Limitations of the Current Release</a></h2>
<p>The following limitations exist:</p>
<ul>
  <li>The distribution kits contain some CVS directories and files, please 
  ignore.</li>
</ul>
<h2><a name="BugReporting">Reporting Bugs</a></h2>
<p>For discussion of features or problems related to CERNLIBAdapter please use the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=AIDAJNI&area=forum">AIDA forum</a>. To 
report bugs or request enhancements you can also use the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=CERNLIBAdapter&area=bugs&report=changelog">
CERNLIBAdapter bug database</a>.
</p>
<h2><a name="Examples">Examples</a></h2>
<p>Current support for CERNLIBAdapter is only as an add-on to JAIDA. There are 
currently no examples.</p>

</body>

</html>
