<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<title>JAIDA 3</title>
<style>
<!--

pre.code {font-size: 8pt; font-family: Courier New; border-style: solid; border-width: 1}
-->
</style>
</head>

<body>

<h1>JAIDA 3.2.2 Release Notes</h1>
<p><font size="2">The most recent version of this file is available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/jaida/v3.2.2/ReleaseNotes.html">here</a>.<br>
Release notes for other versions of JAIDA are available
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/jaida/ReleaseNotes.html">here</a>.</font></p>
<p>JAIDA is a Java implementation of <a href="http://aida.freehep.org/">AIDA - 
Abstract Interfaces for Data Analysis</a>. JAIDA 3.2.2 is based on AIDA 3.2. 
From a user perspective JAIDA 3.2.2 is entirely backwards compatible with AIDA 
3.0 and JAIDA 3.0.*. </p>
<p>JAIDA allows Java programmers to quickly and easily create histograms, 
scatter plots and tuples, perform fits, view plots and store and retrieve 
analysis objects from files. JAIDA can be used either in a non-graphical 
environment (for batch processing) or with a simple GUI to display plots. Files 
written with JAIDA adhere to the AIDA IO standards and can be read by any AIDA 
compliant analysis system.&nbsp;</p>
<p>Users wishing to get full GUI functionality may be interested in
<a href="#JAS3">JAS3</a>, a graphical data analysis toolkit built on top of 
JAIDA. <a href="#JAS3">JAS3</a> can also read .aida files written with JAIDA.</p>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ul>
	<li><a href="#Changes">Major changes in JAIDA 3.2</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Documentation">Documentation</a></li>
	<li><a href="#License">License</a></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight: 400"><a href="#Getting Started">Getting 
	started</a></span></li>
	<li><a href="#Features">Limitations/Features of the Current Release</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Extras">Optional extras</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Bugs">Reporting Bugs</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Saving plots">Saving plots</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Embed">Embedding the JAIDA plotter in your own Java 
	application</a></li>
	<li><a href="#servlet">Using JAIDA in a servlet</a></li>
	<li><a href="#JAS3">Using JAIDA with JAS3</a></li>
	<li><a href="#JAS3">Using JAIDA from C++</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Python">Using JAIDA from Python</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Pnuts">Using JAIDA from Pnuts</a></li>
	<li><a href="#Geant4">Using JAIDA from Geant4</a></li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="Changes">Changes</a></h3>
<h4>Changes in JAIDA 3.2.2</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Addition among functions is now supported. You can now fit for example &quot;g 
	+ p0&quot; to any AIDA data source.</li>
	<li>Improved styles support.</li>
	<li>Fixed problems with logarithmic axis.</li>
</ul>
<h4>Changes in JAIDA 3.2.1.1</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Scripts updated to set and convert classpath correctly when used in cygwin 
  on Windows.</li>
</ul>
<h4>Major changes in JAIDA 3.2.1</h4>
<ul>
	<li>Improved support for plot styles, including the ability to modify styles 
	after a plot is displayed.</li>
	<li>Support for reading root files from a remote root daemon using the root: 
	protocol.</li>
    <li>.win32 setup file merged with .csh and .sh setup files.</li>
</ul>
<h4>Major changes in JAIDA 3.2.0</h4>
<ul>
	<li>JAIDA 3.2 implements the AIDA 3.2 interfaces. </li>
	<li>The default analysis factory has been changed from <code>
	hep.aida.ref.BatchAnalysisFactory</code> to <code>
	hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory</code>. See <a href="#Getting Started">Getting 
	Started</a> for more information.</li>
	<li>An initial implementation of the AIDA IStyle interfaces is now 
	available.</li>
</ul>
<p><font size="2">For a full list of changes in JAIDA 3.2.2 see the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=JAIDA&area=changelog">JAIDA 
change log</a>.<br>
For a full list of changes in AIDA 3.2 see the
<a href="http://aida.freehep.org/releaseNotes.thtml">AIDA change log</a>.</font></p>
<h3><a name="Documentation">Documentation</a></h3>
<p>These release notes list issues specific to the JAIDA implementation of AIDA. 
In general all of the AIDA documentation applies to JAIDA, in particular the 
following are useful:</p>
<ul>
	<li><a href="http://aida.freehep.org/lib/doc/UsersGuide/index.shtml">AIDA 
	Users' Guide</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://aida.freehep.org/doc/v3.2.1/api/index.html">AIDA API 
	documentation</a></li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="License">License</a></h3>
<p>JAIDA is part of the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/">FreeHEP Java Library</a> 
an &quot;Open Source&quot; library distributed under the terms of the
<a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html">LGPL</a>. If you have 
questions about the licensing please send a mail to:
<a href="mailto:developers@freehep.org">developers@freehep.org</a>.</p>
<h3><a name="Getting Started">Getting Started</a></h3>
<p>This current release of JAIDA is designed to be used with
<a href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4/download.html">Java 1.4.0</a> or later. It 
will not work with earlier versions of Java. </p>
<p>Several JAR files are included in this release. You have to include the ones 
you need in your CLASSPATH to be able to use JAIDA:</p>
<ul>
	<li><b>aida.jar</b> - The specification of the AIDA interfaces</li>
	<li><b>aida-dev.jar </b>- The developer level specification of the AIDA 
	interfaces</li>
	<li><b>freehep-hep.jar</b> - The base (non-graphical) AIDA implementation</li>
	<li><b>freehep-base.jar</b> - Some utilities used by freehep-hep </li>
	<li><b>openide-lookup.jar</b> - Utility used by AIDA implementation </li>
	<li><b>jel.jar</b> - Utility used by AIDA implementation</li>
	<li><b>optimizers.jar</b> - Optimization package containing the optimizer 
	UNCMIN </li>
	<li><b>bcel.jar</b> - needed to read ROOT files</li>
	<li><b>jas-plotter.jar</b> - Required if you need to display plots</li>
</ul>
<p>A simple script called <code>aida-setup</code> is provided with JAIDA in the 
bin directory, you can run this to set the CLASSPATH appropriately.</p>
<p>Two implementations of the AIDA IAnalysisFactory are provided with JAIDA:</p>
<ul>
	<li>hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFatory (the default)</li>
	<li>hep.aida.ref.BatchAnalysisFactory</li>
</ul>
<p>The former includes a simple implementation of the AIDA plotter, the latter 
contains a dummy implementation of the plotter which allows for AIDA to be run 
in a batch (or headless) environment. You can explicitly select which analysis 
factory to use by setting the Java property hep.aida.IAnalysisFactory, e.g.:</p>
<pre>java -Dhep.aida.IAnalysisFactory=hep.aida.ref.BatchAnalysisFactory</pre>
<p>The built-in plotter is intended mainly as a simple viewer for AIDA plots, 
for a full-featured GUI implementation based on JAIDA see <a href="#JAS3">JAS3</a>.</p>
<h3><a name="Features">Features/Limitations of the Current Release</a></h3>
<p><b>Histograms</b> - We have provided a full implementation of the AIDA 3.2 
histogram interfaces, including histogram arithmetic and projections and slices.
</p>
<p><b>Profile</b> - One and two dimensional Profile histograms are fully 
implemented. </p>
<p><b>Clouds</b> - We have provided a full implementation of the AIDA 3.2 cloud 
interfaces. By default clouds will &quot;auto-convert&quot; to histograms when they reach 
100,000 entries. You can turn off auto-conversion by specifying the option &quot;autoConvert=no&quot; 
when creating the Cloud. A new options controls how clouds are auto-converted to 
histograms, &quot;margin=0.1&quot; will add a 10% margin to the computed min/max of the 
cloud which determining the histogram range. The default value is &quot;margin=0.05&quot;, 
&quot;margin=0&quot; will restore the behaviour of the previous release.</p>
<p><b>DataPointSet</b> - A full implementation of the AIDA 3.2 is implemented 
including operations among DataPointSets.</p>
<p><b>Trees and IO - </b>The current implementation of&nbsp; ITree supports 
reading and writing AIDA standard XML files (.aida files) in either gzip 
compressed format, or uncompressed format. You can control this via the options 
parameter when the ITree is created. The default is &quot;compressed=yes&quot;. It is also 
possible to open ROOT files, and if the optional <a href="#Extras">CERNLIB 
adapter</a> is installed, also PAW files.</p>
<p><b>Tuples - </b>The whole functionality of AIDA ITuple interface is 
supported, including support for evaluators, filters and nest ITuples . Full 
interactive analysis of ITuples&nbsp; is provided by the TupleExplorer plugin in
<a href="#JAS3">JAS3</a>.</p>
<p><b>Plotting - </b>Full support for the IPlotter interface is included, 
including regions and overlays. In the Java implementation the Plotter observes 
all displayed Histograms and Clouds, and will automatically update the display 
as necessary. Therefore the IPlotter.refresh() method is currently ignored in 
the Java implementation. Not all AIDA implementations will do this, so for 
portability you should still periodically call the refresh() method. Similarly 
the Java implementation is multi-threaded, so plots will be refreshed while the 
main program continues to run, and hence the IPlotter.interact() method is also 
ignored by the Java implementation. Currently it is not possible to plot 3D (or 
higher dimensionality) data objects. Histograms with variable bin-widths are not 
yet displayed correctly. Initial support for plot styles has been added in this 
release.</p>
<p>The following parameters have been added in the Java implementation to the 
plotter region to access the limits of the plot area: xAxisLowerLimit, 
xAxisUpperLimit, yAxisLowerLimit, yAxisUpperLimit. To access the region's limits 
just type:</p>

<pre class="code">double xLowerLimit = Double.parseDouble( plotterRegion.parameterValue(&quot;xAxisLowerLimit&quot;) );</pre>

<p align="left">The parameter &quot;mode&quot; is used to control how an object is added 
to a plot. It is passed as an option in the plot(...) method on the 
IPlotterRegion and it can take two values: &quot;overlay&quot; to overlay the object to 
the existing ones, &quot;replace&quot; to replace the existing plots with the one 
corresponding to the provided object. The latter is equivalent to first clearing 
the region and then plotting the object. The default value is &quot;overlay&quot;.</p>
	<pre class="code">plotterRegion.plot(hist, &quot;mode=overlay&quot;); or
plotterRegion.plot(hist, &quot;mode=replace&quot;);</pre>
<p><b>Trees - </b>JAIDA can read and write XML files (also known as aida files). 
In addition it can read <a href="http://wwwasd.web.cern.ch/wwwasd/paw/">PAW</a> 
(if the optional <a href="#Extras">CERNLIB extension</a> is installed) and
<a href="http://root.cern.ch/">Root</a> files (either directly or via a root
<a href="http://root.cern.ch/root/NetFile.html">daemon</a>). Here are some 
examples:</p>
<pre class="code">ITree tree = tf.create(&quot;myFile.aida&quot;,&quot;xml&quot;);
ITree tree = tf.create(&quot;myFile.paw&quot;,&quot;paw&quot;);
ITree tree = tf.create(&quot;myFile.root&quot;,&quot;root&quot;);
ITree tree = tf.create(&quot;root://sldrh2.slac.stanford.edu&quot;,&quot;root&quot;,true,false,&quot;scheme=anonymous&quot;);</pre>
<p>When opening root files the following options are supported:</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0">
	<tr>
		<th>Option</th>
		<th>Values</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>showAllCycles</td>
		<td>By default only the highest numbered cycle is read. If this option 
		is specified then all cylces are shown.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>scheme</td>
		<td><i>*rood only</i> The authorization scheme to use. Supported values, 
		Anonymous, UsrPwd</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>user</td>
		<td><i>*rood only</i> The user name to use (for UsrPwd scheme)</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>password</td>
		<td><i>*rood only</i> The password to use (for UsrPwd scheme)</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<p><b>Styles </b>- The AIDA style interfaces are fully implemented.&nbsp; To 
understand the way styles work it is important to understand the hierarchical 
structure of the AIDA styles. For each plot a cascade of styles is taken into 
account: the style associated to the IPlotter, the one associated to the 
IPlotterRegion, the default one for a given type of data, and the user provided 
ones when the actual plotting is done (passed via the plot(..) method on the 
IPlotterRegion). When retrieving the value of a give style parameter we first 
start from the user provided styles (if any) and navigate down through all the 
above styles until we find a style for which the given style parameter has been 
set. This means that the style parameters set in a user provided style will 
always overwrite the corresponding style parameter set on the IPlotterRegion. 
Alternatively changing a style parameter on the IPlotterRegion will not affect a 
plot if a user provided style has been used to render the plot and the given 
style parameter has been set by the user.</p>
<p>In the Java implementation all the plots listen for changes to all the 
styles, except for the user provided ones, i.e. the ones that are passed to the IPlotterRegion via its plot(...) method. The plots will update automatically to 
display any style changes. There is a small caveat here due to a limitation in the 
AIDA interfaces. In order to modify the plot style of a given object that has 
been rendered with a user defined style after it has been plotted, it is 
necessary to first remove the object from the plot (remove(..) method on IPlotterRegion), adding it back again providing the modified style object. We 
plan to fix this problem for the next release of AIDA: 4.0.</p>
<p>In our Java implementation we have added the following parameters to our 
implementation of the AIDA styles to allow a finer control over the objects that 
appear on a given plot. In the table below we list the additional parameter 
names, the AIDA object on which they should be set, a description of what they 
control and the allowed values. Please note that all the parameter names and 
their values are case sensitive.</p>
<table border="1" width="85%" cellspacing="0">
	<tr>
		<th align="center" nowrap width="10%"><b>AIDA Interface</b></th>
		<th align="center" nowrap width="14%"><b>Parameter name</b></th>
		<th align="center" nowrap width="40%"><b>Description</b></th>
		<th align="center" nowrap width="34%"><b>Allowed values</b></th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td rowspan="15" nowrap width="10%"><b>IPlotterStyle</b></td>
		<td width="14%">showStatisticsBox</td>
		<td width="40%">Display the statistics box</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">statisticsBoxFont</td>
		<td width="40%">The font type used in the statistics box</td>
		<td width="34%">SanSerif, Times, Comics, etc</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">statisticsBoxFontStyle</td>
		<td width="40%">The font style used in the statistics box</td>
		<td width="34%">plain or 0, bold or 1, italic or 2, boldItalic or 3</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">statisticsBoxFontSize</td>
		<td width="40%">The font size used in the statistics box</td>
		<td width="34%">a positive integer</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">showLegend</td>
		<td width="40%">Display the legend on the plot</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">legendFont</td>
		<td width="40%">The font type used in the legend</td>
		<td width="34%">SanSerif, Times, Comics, etc</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">legendFontStyle</td>
		<td width="40%">The font style used in the legend</td>
		<td width="34%">plain or 0, bold or 1, italic or 2, boldItalic or 3</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">legendFontSize</td>
		<td width="40%">The font size used in the legend</td>
		<td width="34%">a positive integer</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">backgroundColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The plot's background color</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">foregroundColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The plot's foreground color</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">dataAreaColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The data area's background color</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">dataAreaBorderType</td>
		<td width="40%">The data area's border type</td>
		<td width="34%">bevelIn or 0, bevelOut or 1, etched or 2, line or 3, shadow or 4</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">hist2DStyle</td>
		<td width="40%">The way a histogram2D is represented</td>
		<td width="34%">box or 0, ellipse or 1, colorMap or 2</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">showAsScatterPlot</td>
		<td width="40%">For scatter plots only to switch between binned and unbinned 
		representation</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false. The default is true.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">showTitle</td>
		<td width="40%">Display the title.</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false. The default is true.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td colspan="4" nowrap>&nbsp;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td rowspan="9" nowrap width="10%"><b>IDataStyle</b></td>
		<td width="14%">showHistogramBars</td>
		<td width="40%">Display the line around the histogram's bars</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">fillHistogramBars</td>
		<td width="40%">Fill the histogram's bars</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">showErrorBars</td>
		<td width="40%">Show the error bars</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">errorBarsColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The error bars color</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">profileErrors</td>
		<td width="40%">The type of error bars for profile plots</td>
		<td width="34%">spread or 0, errorOnMean or 1. The default is spread.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">showDataPoints</td>
		<td width="40%">Show data points on top of the histogram's bars</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">connectDataPoints</td>
		<td width="40%">Connects the data points with a line</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">lineBetweenPointsColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The color of the line between the points</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">functionLineColor</td>
		<td width="40%">The color of a function</td>
		<td width="34%">a color, see below</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td colspan="4" nowrap>&nbsp;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td rowspan="4" nowrap width="10%"><b>IAxisStyle</b></td>
		<td width="14%">label</td>
		<td width="40%">The axis label</td>
		<td width="34%">a string</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">scale</td>
		<td width="40%">The scale of the axis</td>
		<td width="34%">lin, linear, log, logarithmic</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">type</td>
		<td width="40%">The axis type</td>
		<td width="34%">double, int, string, date</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="14%">allowZeroSuppression</td>
		<td width="40%">To allow zero suppression</td>
		<td width="34%">true, false. The default is false.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td colspan="4" nowrap>&nbsp;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td nowrap width="10%"><b>IFillStyle</b></td>
		<td width="14%">colorMapScheme</td>
		<td width="40%">The type of color map for 2D histograms</td>
		<td width="34%">warm or 0, cool or 1, thermal or 2, rainbow or 3, grayscale or 4</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td colspan="4" nowrap>&nbsp;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td nowrap width="10%"><b>IMarkerStyle</b></td>
		<td width="14%">size</td>
		<td width="40%">The size of the marker</td>
		<td width="34%">a positive integer</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<p>The colors can be passed to the styles in the following formats:</p>
<ul>
	<li>by name: &quot;yellow&quot; , where alpha is always 1.0 </li>
	<li>&nbsp;by int r,g,b,a: &quot;128, 255, 64, 255&quot; , where alpha (a) is optional </li>
	<li>&nbsp;by float r,g,b,a: &quot;0.5, 1.0, 0.25, 1.0&quot; , where alpha (a) is optional 
	</li>
	<li>&nbsp;by single number: &quot;64637&quot; or &quot;0x0FFF08&quot; , where alpha is always 1.0 
	</li>
</ul>
<p><b>Fitting </b>- The flexible design of the IFitter interface allows the user 
to switch very easily the optimizer engine used in the minimization process and 
the type of fit method used. We currently support two optimizers: <i>Minuit</i> 
and <a uncmin.html? Blurbs SoftwareGuide Guide otc www-fp.mcs.anl.gov ?http:><i>
Uncmin</i></a>. The available fit methods are: </p>
<ul>
	<li><i>LeastSquares</i></li>
	<li><i>Chi2</i></li>
	<li><i>CleverChi2</i></li>
	<li><i>BinnedMaximumLikelihood</i></li>
	<li><i>UnbinnedMaximumLikelihood</i></li>
</ul>
<p>The following link provides&nbsp;the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/jaida/v3.2.0/FitMethods.html">fit methods 
definition</a>.</p>
<p><b>Functions</b>- Two types of functions can be created with the 
IFunctionFactory: built-in functions and scripted functions. Currently the only 
built-in functions we provide are the <i>Polynomial</i>, the <i>Exponential</i>, 
the one and two dimensional <i>Gaussian</i> that can be created through the <i>
createFunctionByName</i> method of the <i>IFunctionFactory</i> using for the 
functions model <i>p0, p1, ... </i>, <i>e</i>, <i>g</i> and <i>g2</i> 
respectively. No operations among them are currently supported. </p>
<p>The following table shows the name and the list of parameters for each of the 
built-in functions:</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="1" width="57%" id="AutoNumber1">
	<tr>
		<td width="35%">Polynomial of order n</td>
		<td width="13%" align="center"><i>pn</i></td>
		<td width="81%"><i>p0, p1,....,p(n-1)</i></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="35%">Exponential</td>
		<td width="13%" align="center"><i>e</i></td>
		<td width="81%"><i>amplitude, exponent</i></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="35%">Gaussian 1-dimensional</td>
		<td width="13%" align="center"><i>g</i></td>
		<td width="81%"><i>amplitude, mean, sigma</i></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td width="35%">Gaussian 2-dimensional</td>
		<td width="13%" align="center"><i>g2</i></td>
		<td width="81%"><i>amplitude, meanX, sigmaX, meanY, sigmaY</i></td>
	</tr>
</table>
<p>It is possible to create functions by name by adding any of the built in 
functions, e.g. &quot;g0 + p1&quot;.</p>
<p>For more complicated functions the user should create scripted functions 
though the <i>createFunctionFromScript</i> method. </p>
<p>The following list details which parts of the AIDA standard are not fully 
implemented:</p>
<ul>
	<li>Class IInfo is not implemented</li>
	<li>IFitter supports only constraints of the type &quot;a = b&quot;</li>
	<li>IFunctions: no operations among built in functions, beside addition, are supported.</li>
	<li>IPlotterLayout is not implemented</li>
	<li>IEvaluator and IFilter can only be applied to ITuple's columns at the 
	root level (not to columns inside folders)</li>
	<li>ITuple: for the reason above the project methods on ITuple apply only to 
	root level columns</li>
	<li>Provide full support to the AIDA Styles parameters</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="Extras">Optional Extras</a></h3>
<p>JAIDA is written entirely in Java, and therefore works on any platform with 
support for Java. JAIDA also contains code for reading PAW files and for using 
the Minuit fitter. Both of these components use native code from CERNLIB, and to 
use them you will need to download and install the additional
<a href="ftp://ftp.slac.stanford.edu/software/freehep/CERNLIBAdapter/v3.0.3">
CERNLIB_Adapter for your platform</a> in order to use these features.</p>
<h3><a name="Bugs">Reporting Bugs</a></h3>
<p>For discussion of features or problems related to JAIDA please use the
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=JAIDA&area=forum">JAIDA 
discussion forum</a>. To report bugs or request enhancements you can also use 
the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/redirect?project=JAIDA&area=bugs">JAIDA bug 
database</a>. </p>
<h3><a name="Saving plots">Saving plots</a></h3>
<p>If you are using the hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory you can export your plots 
to a graphics file through the writeToFile(String fileName, String type) method 
on the IPlotter. In order to do this you need to download the following jar 
files from the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/Distributions.html">FreeHEP 
repository</a> and add them to your CLASSPATH:</p>
<ul>
	<li><b>freehep-graphics2d.jar</b></li>
	<li><b>freehep-graphicsio.jar</b></li>
	<li>any additional <b>freehep-graphicsio-&quot;type&quot;.jar</b> where &quot;type&quot; is one 
	of the following export formats:
  	<ul>
		<li>cgm, emf, gif, pdf, ppm, ps, svg, swf</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
</ul>
<h3><a name="Embed">Embedding the JAIDA plotter in your own Java application</a></h3>
<p>The following example illustrates how to embed one (or more) JAIDA plotters 
into your own Java application. The example makes use of the 
hep.aida.ref.plotter.PlotterUtilities class which contains several methods for 
assisting in interfacing JAIDA to other Java applications.</p>
<pre class="code"><font color="green"><b>import</b></font> hep<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>aida<font color="blue"><b>.</b>*<b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> hep<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>aida<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ref<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>plotter<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>PlotterUtilities<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>awt<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>BorderLayout<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>awt<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>event<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ActionEvent<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>util<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>Random<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>

<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>swing<font color="blue"><b>.</b>*<b>;</b></font>

<font color="green"><i>/**
 * An example of how to embed a JAIDA IPlotter into your own application.
 */</i></font>
<font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>class</b></font> AIDAEmbed <font color="green"><b>extends</b></font> JPanel
<font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
   <font color="green"><i>/** Creates a new instance of AIDAEmbed */</i></font>
   <font color="green"><b>public</b></font> AIDAEmbed<font color="blue"><b>()</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
      <font color="green"><b>super</b></font><font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>new</b></font> BorderLayout<font color="blue"><b>());</b></font>

      IAnalysisFactory af <font color="blue">=</font> IAnalysisFactory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      ITree tree <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createTreeFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      IHistogramFactory hf <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogramFactory<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>tree<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      IHistogram1D h1d <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Test&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">50</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="blue">-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

      <font color="green"><i>// Fill with junk
</i></font>      Random rand <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> Random<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      <font color="green"><b>for</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>int</b></font> i <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i <font color="blue">&lt;</font> <font color="brown">10000</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i<font color="blue">++<b>)</b></font>
         h1d<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>rand<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>());</b></font>

      <font color="green"><i>// Create an IPlotter 
</i></font>      IPlotter plotter <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createPlotterFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      plotter<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>currentRegion<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h1d<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

      <font color="green"><i>// Now embed the plotter
</i></font>      add<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>PlotterUtilities<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>componentForPlotter<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>plotter<font color="blue"><b>),</b></font> BorderLayout<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>CENTER<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>

   <font color="green"><i>/**
    * @param args the command line arguments
    */</i></font>
   <font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>static</b></font> <font color="green"><b>void</b></font> main<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>String<font color="blue"><b>[]</b></font> args<font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
      JFrame frame <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> JFrame<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Embedded AIDA&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

      JMenuBar bar <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> JMenuBar<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      JMenu menu <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> JMenu<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;File&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      JMenuItem item <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> JMenuItem<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>new</b></font> ExitAction<font color="blue"><b>());</b></font>
      menu<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>add<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>item<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      bar<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>add<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>menu<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>setJMenuBar<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>bar<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

      frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>setContentPane<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>new</b></font> AIDAEmbed<font color="blue"><b>());</b></font>
      frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>setDefaultCloseOperation<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>EXIT_ON_CLOSE<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>pack<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      frame<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>show<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
   
   <font color="green"><b>private</b></font> <font color="green"><b>static</b></font> <font color="green"><b>class</b></font> ExitAction <font color="green"><b>extends</b></font> AbstractAction
   <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
      ExitAction<font color="blue"><b>()</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font> <font color="green"><b>super</b></font><font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Exit&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
      <font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>void</b></font> actionPerformed<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>ActionEvent e<font color="blue"><b>)</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font> System<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>exit<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
<font color="blue"><b>}</b></font></pre>
<h3><a name="servlet">Using JAIDA in a servlet</a></h3>
<p>The following example illustrates how to use JAIDA in a servlet to send 
graphics back to a user's web browser.</p>
<pre class="code"><font color="green"><b>import</b></font> hep<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>aida<font color="blue"><b>.</b>*<b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> hep<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>aida<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ref<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>plotter<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>PlotterUtilities<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>io<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>IOException<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>util<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>Random<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ServletConfig<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ServletException<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>ServletOutputStream<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>http<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>HttpServlet<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>http<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>HttpServletRequest<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="green"><b>import</b></font> javax<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>servlet<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>http<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>HttpServletResponse<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>

<font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>class</b></font> AIDAServlet <font color="green"><b>extends</b></font> HttpServlet
<font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
   <font color="green"><b>private</b></font> IPlotter plotter<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
   <font color="green"><i>/** Initializes the servlet.
    */</i></font>
   <font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>void</b></font> init<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>ServletConfig config<font color="blue"><b>)</b></font> <font color="green"><b>throws</b></font> ServletException
   <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
      <font color="green"><b>super</b></font><font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>init<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>config<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      
      IAnalysisFactory af <font color="blue">=</font> IAnalysisFactory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      ITree tree <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createTreeFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      IHistogramFactory hf <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogramFactory<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>tree<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

      IHistogram1D h1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Test&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">50</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="blue">-</font><font color="brown">4</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">4</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      Random r <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="green"><b>new</b></font> Random<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
      <font color="green"><b>for</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>int</b></font> i <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i <font color="blue">&lt;</font> <font color="brown">10000</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i<font color="blue">++<b>)</b></font>
         h1.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>());</b></font>

      plotter <font color="blue">=</font> af<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createPlotterFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Test&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      plotter<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font> 
   <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
   
   <font color="green"><b>public</b></font> <font color="green"><b>void</b></font> doGet<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>HttpServletRequest req<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> HttpServletResponse res<font color="blue"><b>)</b></font> <font color="green"><b>throws</b></font> ServletException<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> IOException
   <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>      
      ServletOutputStream out <font color="blue">=</font> res<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>getOutputStream<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>  
      res<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>setContentType<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;image/png&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      PlotterUtilities<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>writeToFile<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>plotter<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>out<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;png&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="green"><b>null</b></font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
      out<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>close<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
   <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>   
<font color="blue"><b>}</b></font></pre>
<h3><a name="JAS3">Using JAIDA with JAS3</a></h3>
<p>JAIDA is intended for use in simple standalone Java applications. It provides 
the full AIDA functionality for Java, but only limited &quot;GUI&quot; functionality. JAS3 
builds on the functionality of JAIDA and adds many GUI based interactive 
analysis tools. JAS3 is available from <a href="http://jas.freehep.org/jas3">
http://jas.freehep.org/jas3</a>.</p>
<h3><a name="Python">Using JAIDA from Python</a></h3>
<p><a href="http://www.python.org/">Python</a> is a popular object-oriented 
scripting language. <a href="http://www.jython.org/">Jython</a> is an 
implementation of Python written in Java. Jython is able to access any Java 
object as if it were a Python object. Thus it is very easy to use JAIDA with 
Jython. The combination provides a very convenient way of exploring the 
capabilities of JAIDA.</p>
<p>To use it follow steps below:</p>
<ul>
	<li><a href="http://www.jython.org/download.html">Download</a> and install 
	Jython. Add the installation directory to your PATH. </li>
	<li>Make sure your CLASSPATH is set as specified in the
	<a href="#Getting Started">getting started</a> section of these release 
	notes.</li>
</ul>
<p>Run the script below just by typing:</p>
<pre>jython UsingJAIDAFromJython.py</pre>
<p>where UsingJAIDAFromJython.py contains:</p>
<pre class="code">from hep<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>aida <font color="green"><b>import</b></font> <font color="blue">*</font>
from java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>lang <font color="green"><b>import</b></font> <font color="blue">*</font>
from java<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>util <font color="green"><b>import</b></font> <font color="blue">*</font>

System<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>getProperties<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>setProperty<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;hep.aida.IAnalysisFactory&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;hep.aida.ref.AnalysisFactory&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>

true <font color="blue">=</font> Boolean<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;true&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
false <font color="blue">=</font> Boolean<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;false&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

factory <font color="blue">=</font> IAnalysisFactory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
tree    <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createTreeFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;UsingJAIDAFromJython.aida&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;xml&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>false<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>true<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
hf      <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogramFactory<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>tree<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
#fitter  <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createFitFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>createFitter<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Chi2&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;uncmin&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

h1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">50</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
h2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">40</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">40</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

c1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createCloud1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
c2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createCloud2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1 <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createPlotterFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Page1&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1.show<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
page1.createRegions<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">1</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>c1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>c2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

r <font color="blue">=</font> Random<font color="blue"><b>()</b></font>

def fill<font color="blue"><b>()</b>:</font>
          <font color="green"><b>for</b></font> i in range<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">10000</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b>:</font>
                h1.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
                h2.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>(),</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
                c1.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
                c2.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>(),</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>

fill<font color="blue"><b>()</b></font>

tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>commit<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font></pre>
<h3><a name="Pnuts">Using JAIDA from Pnuts</a></h3>
<p>Pnuts is a nice java scripting language and it can downloaded it from
<a href="https://pnuts.dev.java.net/">https://pnuts.dev.java.net/</a>.</p>
<p>The above AIDA script in Pnuts looks like:</p>
<pre class="code">IAnalysisFactory = class hep.aida.IAnalysisFactory
factory = IAnalysisFactory::create()

tree    <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createTreeFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;UsingJAIDAFromPnuts.aida&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;xml&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>false<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>true<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
hf      <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogramFactory<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>tree<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

h1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">50</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
h2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createHistogram2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">40</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">40</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b>-</font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>3<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

c1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createCloud1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
c2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createCloud2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1 <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>createPlotterFactory<font color="blue"><b>().</b></font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Page1&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1.show<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
page1.createRegions<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">1</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>h2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>c1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
page1.region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>).</b></font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>c2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

Random = class java.util.Random
r = Random()

for( i = 0; i &lt; <font color="brown">10000; i++ </font><font color="blue"><b>) {</b></font>
   h1.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
   h2.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>(),</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
   c1.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
   c2.fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>(),</b></font>r<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>nextGaussian<font color="blue"><b>())</b></font>
}

tree<font color="blue"><b>.</b></font>commit<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font></pre>
<p>To execute the above script follow the steps below:</p>
<ul>
	<li>save the Pnuts script in a file called &quot;script.pnut&quot;</li>
	<li>execute with<ul>
		<li>pnuts script.pnut</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
</ul>
<p>where &quot;pnuts&quot; is the executable that comes with the Pnuts distribution 
appropriate for your platform.</p>
<h3><a name="C++">Using JAIDA from C++</a></h3>
<p>To access the Java implementation of the AIDA interfaces from C++ you need to 
download the <a href="http://java.freehep.org/jaida/BinaryDistributions.html">
AIDAJNI </a>glue code that will allow you to operate on the JAIDA objects from 
C++.</p>
<p>Example C++ code follows:</p>
<pre class="code">include <font color="blue">&lt;</font>iostream<font color="blue">&gt;</font>
include <font color="blue">&lt;</font>cstdlib<font color="blue">&gt;</font>

include <font color="purple">&quot;AIDA/AIDA.h&quot;</font>
include <font color="purple">&quot;JIAnalysisFactory.h&quot;</font>

using namespace AIDA<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>

<font color="green"><b>int</b></font> <font color="green"><b>main</b></font><font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>int</b></font> argc<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="green"><b>char</b></font> <font color="blue">*</font>argv<font color="blue"><b>[])</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>

        AIDA<font color="blue">::</font>IAnalysisFactory<font color="blue">*</font> factory <font color="blue">=</font> AIDA_createAnalysisFactory<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
        ITree<font color="blue">*</font>              tree    <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createTreeFactory<font color="blue"><b>()</b>-&gt;</font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;UsingJAIDAFromCPP.aida&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;xml&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>false<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>true<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        IHistogramFactory<font color="blue">*</font>  hf      <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createHistogramFactory<font color="blue"><b>(</b>*</font>tree<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        tree<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        tree<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Histograms&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        IHistogram1D<font color="blue">*</font> h1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createHistogram1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">50</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>0<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        IHistogram2D<font color="blue">*</font> h2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createHistogram2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Histogram 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">40</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>0<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>40<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>10<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        
        tree<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>mkdir<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        tree<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>cd<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;/Clouds&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        
        ICloud1D<font color="blue">*</font> c1 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createCloud1D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 1D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        ICloud2D<font color="blue">*</font> c2 <font color="blue">=</font> hf<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createCloud2D<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Cloud 2D&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        IPlotter<font color="blue">*</font> page1 <font color="blue">=</font> factory<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createPlotterFactory<font color="blue"><b>()</b>-&gt;</font>create<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="purple">&quot;Page1&quot;</font><font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>show<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>createRegions<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>,</b></font>2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b>-&gt;</font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b>*</font>h1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">1</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b>-&gt;</font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b>*</font>h2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">2</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b>-&gt;</font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b>*</font>c1<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        page1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>region<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font><font color="brown">3</font><font color="blue"><b>)</b>-&gt;</font>plot<font color="blue"><b>(</b>*</font>c2<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>

        srand<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="brown">0</font> <font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        <font color="green"><b>for</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="green"><b>int</b></font> i <font color="blue">=</font> <font color="brown">0</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i <font color="blue">&lt;</font> <font color="brown">10000</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font> i<font color="blue">++</font> <font color="blue"><b>)</b></font> <font color="blue"><b>{</b></font>
            h1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX <font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
            h2<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
            c1<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX <font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
            c2<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>fill<font color="blue"><b>(</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX<font color="blue"><b>,</b></font> <font color="brown">10</font><font color="blue">*</font>rand<font color="blue"><b>()</b>/<b>(</b></font><font color="green"><b>double</b></font><font color="blue"><b>)</b></font>RAND_MAX<font color="blue"><b>);</b></font>
        <font color="blue"><b>}</b></font>
        tree<font color="blue">-&gt;</font>commit<font color="blue"><b>();</b></font>
        <font color="green"><b>delete</b></font> factory<font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
        <font color="green"><b>return</b></font> <font color="brown">1</font><font color="blue"><b>;</b></font>
<font color="blue"><b>}</b></font></pre>
<h3><a name="Geant4">Using JAIDA from Geant4</a></h3>
<p>Please see the documentation on
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/aidajni/ReleaseNotes.html">AIDAJNI</a> to use 
JAIDA from Geant4.</p>

</body>

</html>
