<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<title>The FreeHEP Java Library - Project Guidelines</title>
</head>

<body>

      <h1>Project Guidelines</h1>
      <p>Currently we have not developed any formal rules or policies. The
      following are some guidelines for authors.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Packages should include test/example code, normally in a package post fixed
          .test</li>
        <li>Each class should include an <tt>@author</tt> tag, specifying the owner, and
          a <tt>@version</tt> tag specifying the version.<br>
        (You can use <tt>@version &#036;Id&#036;</tt> to
          get CVS to automatically generate version tags).</li>
        <li>usage of external libraries, dependencies should be kept to minimum,
          and documented.</li>
        <li>Each package should have a javadoc package.html file giving an
          overview of the functionality of the package.</li>
      </ul>

      <h3>Creating new packages</h3>
      <p>Before a new package is introduced it should be discussed on the
      <a href="mailto:developers@freehep.org">FreeHEP developers mailing</a> list. The discussion should help to clarify</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Whether the suggested functionality is useful, and likely to be of
          sufficient generality to be reused by others in future</li>
        <li>Whether the suggested functionality is already available elsewhere
          in the FreeHEP library or any other open source library</li>
        <li>Where in the FreeHEP hierarchy it belongs</li>
      </ol>
      <p>As a result of these discussions it should be possible to provide a
      package.html file which describes the package and how it meets the above
      goals. In some cases it may be appropriate to initially insert the package
      in the preview area before it becomes clear if it meets all of the goals.</p>

</body>

</html>