<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 6.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<title>JAIDA 3</title>
</head>

<body>

<h1>Statistical Comparison</h1>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In the following we describe the statistical comparison we 
provide in JAIDA to assess if two data sets (either binned or unbinned) are 
distributed according to the same distribution. This work used as a reference 
the Goodness-of-Fit tests provided by the
<a href="http://www.ge.infn.it/geant4/analysis/HEPstatistics/">Statistical 
Toolkit</a>; please refer to it for the general documentation on the comparison 
algorithms.</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The main code to perform statistical comparison is 
contained in the package hep.aida.util.comparison whose classes implement some 
of the interfaces in hep.aida.ext. Please refer to the FreeHEP
<a href="http://java.freehep.org/lib/freehep/api/index.html">API</a> for a 
general overview of the available classes.</p>
<h2>Comparing Datasets</h2>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp; The abstract class to perform comparisons is 
StatisticalComparison. It provides a set of static methods with which it is 
possible to compare binned and unbinned datasets. Currently it is only possible 
to compare IHistogram1D and ICloud1D objects. The result of such a comparison is 
an IComparisonResult object that contains the result of the comparison. For 
example:</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; IComparisonResult result = 
StatisticalComparison.compare(hist1, hist2);</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<h2>Comparison Algorithms</h2>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We list here the comparison algorithms that are provided 
by the JAIDA implementation. Please refer to the
<a href="http://www.ge.infn.it/geant4/analysis/HEPstatistics/">Statistical 
Toolkit</a> web page for a description of the various algorithms.</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For each of the comparison algorithms we provide some 
plots to illustrate their performance. To generate such plots we created the 
following sets of data:</p>
<ul>
	<li><i>reference</i>: an IHistogram1D (or ICloud1D) with 1000 entries 
	generated according to a gaussian distribution</li>
	<li><i>comparison</i>: an IHistogram1D (or ICloud1D) with 3000 entries 
	generated according to a gaussian distribution</li>
	<li><i>weighted</i>: an IHistogram1D (or ICloud1D) filled with the same data 
	as the <i>comparison</i> dataset, but with 0.9 weight</li>
</ul>
<p>Every plot shows the data obtained by comparing 1000 times the <i>reference</i> 
dataset with the <i>comparison</i> and the <i>weighted</i> dataset. As most of 
the algorithms compare the shape of the distribution we expect the two 
comparisons to give the <i>same</i> result.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

</body>

</html>